---
title: "Instagram Clone – Full-Stack Web Application"
date: 2026-01-18 12:00:00 +0000
categories: [Software, Web Development]
tags: [python, javascript, react, sql, flask]
description: "Full-stack instagram clone featuring RESTful APIs, secure session management, and dynamic front-end components."
image:
  path: /assets/insta.png
  alt: "A post on Insta485, featuring comments, likes, and timestamps."
---

I took EECS 485 &mdash; Web Systems during the fall semester of 2025, my junior year of college. An incredible course, taught by the also-incredible Andrew DeOrio, I learned a lot about full-stack web development, asynchronous programming, cybersecurity, distributed systems, and much more. 


Our largest project was development of a full-stack instagram clone. Over the course of about one month, we went from a basic static site with just HTML and CSS to a reactive, user-friendly web app with integration between a React frontend and a Flask backend supported by a SQL database.

The backbone of the site is a robust RESTful API built with Flask. First, I developed secure login systems using session management to protect user data and restrict access to private pages. Next, I engineered CRUD database operations for accessing and updating user data, post images, and comments. Finally, I structured endpoints to handle high-frequency requests for likes and comments, ensuring low-latency communication between the client and server.

On the user-facing side, I utilized React to build a dynamic, responsive interface. I built interactive components for likes and comments that provide immediate visual feedback to the user. Additonally, I implemented an infinite scroll feature to load content dynamically, optimizing frontend performance and memory usage.

Once finished, I delivered a modern, responsive Instagram clone where users could register and log into an account, create and view posts, follow other users, and interact in real time.

This project was a major milestone in my software engineering journey. For the first time, I developed an application with optimizing user experience as the priority. Another challenge was managing asynchronous state in React while ensuring the SQL database remained the "single source of truth." From this project, I have greatly improved at developing reliable, efficient systems that provide a responsive, intuitive interface.